no one is one of the greatest wrestlers
in the United States history
Leroy Percy Kemp jr. was born Daniel
Freeman in Cleveland Ohio in 1956 was
given up at birth and spent the first
five years of his life in two foster
homes before being raised on a 25 acre
farm by his adoptive parents Leroy and
Jesse Kemp it was on that farm in
Chardon Ohio that lead camp learned the
work ethic that prepared him for what
was to come later in his wrestling life
in his freshman year Chardon High School
the camp got involved in wrestling a
virtual novice on the mat his first year
of wrestling we made the Freshman team
and finished the season only losing two
matches and winning the conference
tournament in his junior year he
defeated the returning runner-up and
defending champion on his way to his
first title and an undefeated season he
repeated in his senior year by winning
his second ohio state title and finished
his junior and senior years undefeated
with a record of 55 0 and 0 with 24 pin
Gees
Kemp accepted a full scholarship offer
from the University of wisconsin-madison
where he quickly became a national
headliner
as a freshman he reached the national
collegiate finals the only freshman to
do so but was turned back by split
referee's decision in overtime about in
which kemp scored the only takedown he
didn't lose another collegiate bout in
his next three years Kemp posted 108
victories and one draw against
collegiate competition and won three
NCAA titles at 158 pounds Kemp was
inducted into the University of
Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame in 1991
after graduation
Kemp continued his highly successful
wrestling career he was a three-time
gold medalist and World Championships
four-time gold medalist in the world cup
of wrestling two-time gold medalist in
the Pan American Games a seven-time
national champion and was named the
United States Wrestling Federation Man
of the Year in 1978 he was also inducted
into the National Wrestling Hall of Fame
in 19
9 li coach the US Olympic team to
victory in Beijing in 2008 and was
inducted to the International Wrestling
Hall of Fame one of only five Americans
inducted to date in a ceremony during
the Beijing Games he has been featured
three times in Sports Illustrated
magazine February 1977 April 1982 and
May 1982
Life magazine featured Kemp in their
1984 Olympic preview issue along with
Michael Jordan Carl Lewis Edwin Moses
and Greg Louganis Lee remains very
active in wrestling teaching and
mentoring youth and high school level
wrestlers at his club Kemp Wrestling
Academy in palatine illinois he also
works with and mentors the country's
very best elite wrestlers by coaching
them at world level competitions well
when I think about Lee Camp I guess I
think about the one of the great
wrestlers of all time and in our country
in fact he was named as one of the top
15 wrestlers in the history of the sport
in st. Louis about two years ago he came
to us from Chardon Ohio where he was a
two-time state champion didn't go out
for wrestling till he was a sophomore in
high school was undefeated his junior
and senior year came to Wisconsin lost a
split referees decision in the national
finals as a freshman and then won the
national championship the next three
years coming right off his third
national championship he went into the
world games and won a gold medal and as
far as I know he's a youngest American
ever to win a gold medal in the world
games a blessed with tremendous speed
great quickness super balanced and a lot
of mental toughness I think that's about
all you need to be a great athlete in
most any sport in addition to that a
very very fine person has his MBA from
Wisconsin and business I can't say
enough good things about him I was very
fortunate to have coached him having
been named n-c-double-a coach of the
year was probably more due to his
efforts than mine he he certainly made
our coaching staff look very very good
he's remained a friend over the years
and were in contact all the time
especially now that he's that he's in
Chicago I want to congratulate him for
being named into the Wisconsin State
Sports Hall of Fame he is indeed one of
the great athletes that the state has
ever had the honor of watching or
representing us over the years I know of
no other athlete that we've had that has
won a World Championship three times so
congratulations Lee couldn't be happier
for you for all he has done to elevate
the sport of wrestling both in our state
and around the world please welcome mr.
Lee Kevin the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of
Fame
you